[DOCU-1399] Mocking plugin EE 2.4 GA (#2781)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_hub/kong-inc/mocking/index.md

  - Accelerates development of services and APIs.
  - Promotes parallel development of APIs across distributed teams.
  - Provides an enhanced full lifecycle API development experience with Dev Portal
    integration.
  - Easily enable and disable the Mocking plugin for flexibility when
    testing API behavior.

enterprise: true
type:
  plugin
categories:
  - traffic-control

kong_version_compatibility:
    enterprise_edition:
      compatible:
        - 2.4.x
params:
  name: mocking
  service_id: true
  consumer_id: true
  route_id: true
  protocols: ["http", "https", "grpc", "grpcs"]
  dbless_compatible: yes
  dbless_explanation: |
    Use the `api_specification` config for DB-less or hybrid mode. Attach the spec contents directly
    instead of uploading to the Dev Portal. The API spec is configured directly in the plugin.
  yaml_examples: false
  k8s_examples: false
  examples: false

  config:
    - name: api_specification_filename
      required: semi
      default:
      datatype: string
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        The path and name of the specification file loaded into Kong DB. You cannot

>         use this option for DB-less or hybrid mode.

Author: It should be mutually exclusive but it isn't. You can use both. There is still the matter of precedence, which is unknown.

>         use this option for DB-less or hybrid mode.

Reviewer: @eskibars 

Sorry for getting to the party so late; would it be better to remove the `api_specification_filename` from the schema all together? This would avoid confusion by the user.

>         use this option for DB-less or hybrid mode.

Author: > @eskibars
> 
> Sorry for getting to the party so late; would it be better to remove the `api_specification_filename` from the schema all together? This would avoid confusion by the user.

@mikefero that is what @murillopaula thought should happen, also making the  `api_specification` field required too.

>         use this option for DB-less or hybrid mode.

Reviewer 2: Chatted with @mikefero and I'll replay our conversation here.

I think we should leave this option in for the time being, though we should consider it for removal in 3.0.  We're sort of in a weird place with this plugin where even though it's been officially unreleased, it's kind of been used by a variety of folks and we should probably consider removal of this as a "breaking change in a minor" as strange as that may seem.  I agree it's a trappy configuration parameter and the non-file-based parameter should be strongly preferred (and encouraged).  Let's leave it in as-is for now, deprecate it in 2.5, and remove it in 3.0.

    - name: api_specification
      required: semi
      default:
      datatype: string
      value_in_examples: <my_spec_contents>
      description: |
        The contents of the specification file. You must use this option for hybrid or DB-less mode.
        With this configuration option, you can specify the full specification as part of the configuration,

>         rather than specifying a separate file with `api_specification_filename` that lives next to the Kong Gateway (Enterprise).

Author: They should be mutually exclusive but they aren't. Discussed with Murillo and he is going to discuss with his team, and we'll log tickets about various (re)design  considerations.

The only caveat is that if using dbless, they cannot use the api_specification_filename option.

        the `Config.Api Specification` text field.
    - name: random_delay
      required: false
      default: false
      datatype: boolean
      value_in_examples: true
      description: |
        Enables random delay in the mocked response. Introduces delays to simulate
        real-time response times by APIs.
    - name: max_delay_time
      required: semi
      default: 1
      datatype: number
      value_in_examples: 1
      description: |
        The maximum value in seconds of delay time. Set this value when `random_delay` is enabled
        and you want to adjust the default. The value must be greater than the
        `min_delay_time`.
    - name: min_delay_time
      required: semi
      default: 0.001
      datatype: number
      value_in_examples: 0.001
      description: |
        The minimum value in seconds of delay time. Set this value when `random_delay` is enabled
        and you want to adjust the default. The value must be less than the
        `max_delay_time`.

  extra: |

    Either the `api_specification_filename` or the `api_specification` should be specified for the

>     plugin according to the Kong Gateway (Enterprise) deployment mode.

Author: The spec params are not required. But if they don't have a spec, it's pretty pointless.

---

## Configuration

> ### Enable the plugin on a service

Author: I had to write them out manually for reasons I described in the PR description area.

  [enable the Dev Portal](/enterprise/latest/developer-portal/enable-dev-portal/) using `kong.conf`. Also refer to
  the instructions for your environment:
  - [Docker](/enterprise/latest/deployment/installation/docker/#step-7-optional-enable-the-dev-portal)
  - [Ubuntu](/enterprise/latest/deployment/installation/ubuntu/#optional-enable-the-dev-portal)
  - [CentOS](/enterprise/latest/deployment/installation/centos/#optional-enable-the-dev-portal)
  - [Amazon Linux 1](/enterprise/latest/deployment/installation/amazon-linux/#optional-enable-the-dev-portal)
  - [Amazon Linux 2](/enterprise/latest/deployment/installation/amazon-linux-2/#optional-enable-the-dev-portal)
  - [RHEL](/enterprise/latest/deployment/installation/rhel/#optional-enable-the-dev-portal)

- An Open API Specification (`yaml` or `json`) that has at least one API method with an
  embedded example response. Multiple examples within a spec are supported. See the
  [Stock API spec example](#stock-spec).

Tutorial steps:

1. Deploy the example OAS spec that contains mocked responses to the [Dev Portal](#deploy-spec-portal) or
   [Insomnia](#deploy-spec-insomnia).
2. Create the [Stock service](#create-stock-service).

> 3. Create the [get stock quote route](#create-stock-quote-route).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Create the [`get stock quote` route](#create-stock-quote-route).
```

> 4. Enable the [Mocking plugin](#enable-mock-plugin) on the get stock quote route.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Enable the [Mocking plugin](#enable-mock-plugin) on the `get stock quote` route.
```

> 5. Enable the [CORS plugin](#enable-cors-plugin) on the get stock quote route.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. Enable the [CORS plugin](#enable-cors-plugin) on the `get stock quote` route.
```

6. [Test the mocked response](#testing123) from the Dev Portal, Insomnia, or the command line.

> 7. When you've completed your API mock testing, [disable the Mocking plugin and update the Service URL](#post-test).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
7. When you've completed your API mock testing, [disable the Mocking plugin and update the service URL](#post-test).
```

### Step 1. Deploy the Stock API example spec

Deploy the [Stock API spec example](#stock-spec) to either the [Dev Portal](#deploy-spec-portal) or
[Insomnia](#deploy-spec-insomnia).

#### Deploy a spec to the Dev Portal {#deploy-spec-portal}

Follow these steps to deploy a spec to the Dev Portal using Kong Manager. You can
copy and paste the `stock-01.json` example file into the Dev Portal using Editor Mode.

![Dev Portal Specs](/assets/images/docs/dev-portal/stock-spec-mock-example.png)

1. Open Editor Mode and click **New File**.
2. Name the file `stock-01.json`.
3. Copy and paste the contents in the [example](#stock-spec) into the new file.

Alternatively, you can also use the [Portal Files API](/enterprise/latest/developer-portal/files-api/#post-a-content-file)
to upload a spec to the Dev Portal.

#### Deploy a spec to Insomnia {#deploy-spec-insomnia}

1. From the Insomnia dashboard, click **Create** > **Import from File** and select the
   `stock-0.1.json` file.

   ![Insomnia Dashboard Import File](/assets/images/docs/insomnia/insomnia-import-spec.png)

>    You are prompted to choose an import option.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
Re: recent conversations with the doc team, we should avoid this type of language. Instead, edit the following line to say "Choose **Design Document** from the import options", if you have to include this info.

> 2. Click **Design Document**.
> 
>    An import succeeded message is displayed. Click OK.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Click **Design Document**, then click OK on the success message.
```

    },
    "snis": null,
    "sources": null,
    "strip_path": true,
    "tags": null,
    "updated_at": 1619188004
}
```

### Step 4. Enable the Mocking plugin {#enable-mock-plugin}

This example enables the Mocking plugin on the `getStockQuote` route.

Command:

{% navtabs %}
{% navtab cURL %}

```bash
curl -X POST http://<admin-hostname>:8001/routes/getStockQuote/plugins \
    --data "name=mocking"  \
    --data "config.api_specification_filename=stock-0.1.json"
```

Optional configuration for random simulated delay:

```bash
curl -X POST http://<admin-hostname>:8001/routes/getStockQuote/plugins \
    --data "name=mocking"  \
    --data "config.api_specification_filename=stock-0.1.json" \
    --data "config.random_delay=true" \
    --data "config.max_delay_time=1" \
    --data "config.min_delay_time=0.001"
```

DB-less or hybrid mode configuration must use `config.api_specification`:

```bash
curl -X POST http://<admin-hostname>:8001/routes/getStockQuote/plugins \
    --data "name=mocking"  \
    --data "config.api_specification=<spec_contents>"
```

Because a spec can be rather lengthy to put into a command, use a local variable to post
a spec:

```bash

> mock_ex=$(cat example.yaml); curl -X POST http://<admin-hostname>:8001/routes/<route_id>/plugins --data name=mocking --data config.api_specification="$mock_ex"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
mock_ex=$(cat example.yaml); \
curl -X POST http://<admin-hostname>:8001/routes/<route_id>/plugins \
  --data name=mocking \
  --data config.api_specification="$mock_ex"
```
Split it up to avoid having a long scrollable codeblock

       "max_age": null,
       "methods": [
           "GET",
           "HEAD",
           "PUT",
           "PATCH",
           "POST",
           "DELETE",
           "OPTIONS",
           "TRACE",
           "CONNECT"
       ],
       "origins": [
           "*"
       ],
       "preflight_continue": false
   },
   "consumer": null,
   "created_at": 1619210785,
   "enabled": true,
   "id": "4573e790-b0b5-4535-a1ab-88c42ca56f69",
   "name": "cors",
   "protocols": [
       "grpc",
       "grpcs",
       "http",
       "https"
   ],
   "route": {
       "id": "5ada3c98-c732-4c05-903f-9ba8ef026776"
   },
   "service": null,
   "tags": null
}
```

### Step 6. Test the mock response {#testing123}

Test the mocked response from within the Dev Portal Service,
[Insomnia](https://insomnia.rest/download), or from the command line.

#### Dev Portal mock spec test

Test the mock response from within the Dev Portal spec using the Try it out feature.

1. From the Dev Portal home page, click the **Stock API** Service tile.

   ![Dev Portal Services](/assets/images/docs/dev-portal/stock-service.png)

2. Click the **GET /stock/historical** method and the **Try it out** button.

> 3. Enter the ticker sign **AAPL** in the **tickers** box and click **Execute**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Enter the ticker sign **AAPL** in the **tickers** box and click **Execute** to see the server response.
```

>    The Server response is displayed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

   ![Try it out Dev Portal](/assets/images/docs/dev-portal/tryitout-portal.png)

#### Insomnia mock spec test {#insomnia}

Test the mock response from within the Insomnia spec using the Try it out feature.

1. From the Insomnia dashboard, click the **Stock API 0.1 Document** tile.

   ![Insomnia Dashboard](/assets/images/docs/insomnia/insomnia-stock-spec.png)

2. Click the **GET /stock/historical** method and the **Try it out** button.

> 3. Enter the ticker sign **AAPL** in the **tickers** box and click **Execute**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Enter the ticker sign **AAPL** in the **tickers** box and click **Execute** to see the server response.
```

>    The Server response is displayed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

   ![Try it out Insomnia](/assets/images/docs/insomnia/tryitout-insomnia.png)

#### Command line test

{% navtabs %}
{% navtab cURL %}

```bash

> curl -X GET "http://<admin-hostname>:8000/stock/historical?tickers=AAPL" -H "accept: application/json"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
curl -X GET "http://<admin-hostname>:8000/stock/historical?tickers=AAPL" \
  -H "accept: application/json"
```

```

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab HTTPie %}

```bash
http :8000/stock/historical?tickers=AAPL accept:application/json
```

{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}

The response matches the mocked response from within the spec:

```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Connection: keep-alive
Content-Length: 279
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
Date: Wed, 05 May 2021 19:59:06 GMT
Server: kong/2.4.0.0-beta1-enterprise-edition
X-Kong-Mocking-Plugin: true
X-Kong-Response-Latency: 40
vary: Origin

{
    "meta_data": {
        "api_name": "historical_stock_price_v2",
        "credit_cost": 10,
        "end_date": "yesterday",
        "num_total_data_points": 1,
        "start_date": "yesterday"
    },
    "result_data": {
        "AAPL": [
            {
                "adj_close": 275.03,
                "close": 100.03,
                "date": "2000-04-23",
                "high": 100.75,
                "low": 100.87,
                "open": 100.87,
                "volume": 33
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

### Step 7. Disable the Mocking plugin and update the Service URL {#post-test}

> When your API mock testing is completed, disable the Mocking plugin and update the Service

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When your API mock testing is completed, disable the Mocking plugin and update the service
```

2. Name the file `stock-01.json`.
3. Copy and paste the contents below into the new file.

> The mocked response is between lines 44 to 59.

Author: need to highlight lines

    --data "config.api_specification_filename=stock-0.1.json"
```

Optional configuration for random delay:

```
curl -X POST http://<admin-hostname>:8001/routes/getStockQuote/plugins \
    --data "name=mocking"  \
    --data "config.api_specification_filename=stock-0.1.json" \
    --data "config.random_delay=true" \
    --data "config.max_delay_time=1" \
    --data "config.min_delay_time=0.001"
```

DB-less configuration:

```
curl -X POST http://<admin-hostname>:8001/routes/getStockQuote/plugins \
    --data "name=mocking"  \

>     --data "config.api_specification=stock-0.1.json"

Author: note the different config-not api spec filename

Author: After Shane's demo, this is wrong. You paste the entire spec in here. This would be difficult to display gracefully.

### Test the mock response

Test the mock response from within the Dev Portal spec using the Try it out feature:

1. From the Dev Portal home page, click the **Stock API** Service tile.

   ![Dev Portal Services](/assets/images/docs/dev-portal/stock-service.png)

2. Click the **GET /stock/historical** method and the **Try it out** button.

3. Enter the ticker sign **AAPL** in the **tickers** box and click **Execute**.

   The Server response is displayed.

>    ![Try it out](/assets/images/docs/dev-portal/response_placeholder.png)

Author: I'm not sure why but I keep getting TypeError: Failed to fetch even though I'm trying to follow the video and user guide

Author: Thanks @murillopaula for figuring this out with me today. Added to troubleshooting.

Author: Update: Shane requested removing troubleshooting and changing the example spec instead.
